---
title: Appendix
source_id: open-guide-to-kanban
chapter: Appendix
chapter_index: 10
source_url: "https://kanbanguides.org/open-guide-to-kanban/"
source_version: v2025.7 (July 2025)
license: CC-BY-SA-4.0
authors: John Coleman, Magdalena Firlit, Nigel Thurlow, Jose Casal, Martin Hinshelwood, Andy Carmichael, Jim Benson, Michael Forni, Christian Neverdal, Nader Talai, Steve Tendon
tags: [kanban, open-guide-to-kanban, appendix]
---
## Appendix

### Controlling Work In Progress/Process = Controlling ‘Started but not Finished Work’

Control of *‘Started but not Finished Work’, also referred to as* WIP control, can be represented on a Kanban board in any way that *Kanban system* members deem appropriate, including, but not limited to, painter’s tape spots, Total Work Item Age or Total Elapsed Time for ‘Started’ but Not Finished Items (TETSNFI), queue controls, WIP control numbers, or WIP control ranges.

*There are also some optional non-Kanban options, supported by some communities, such as CONWIP(16), Simplified DBR (16), or DBR(16):*

- **CONWIP (Constant Work In Progress/Process)** (16)**:** CONWIP is a pull system that maintains a fixed total ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ (SNFW) or Work In Progress/Process (WIP) limit across the entire workflow, ‘starting’ new Work only when a ‘finished’ or ‘completed’ Item exits, regulating Flow with a single system-wide constraint. Example: A software support team allows only 15 open tickets at any time; when a ticket is resolved, a new one can be ‘started.’ Not everyone supports it.
- **DBR** (3,16)**:** An advanced approach that manages the Flow Constraint with Buffers before the Flow Constraint and at system outputs, maximizing Throughput while protecting against variability in complex systems. Example: In a product development group, UX review (primary Flow Constraint) sets the pace (drum) with a Buffer of designs before it, a secondary Buffer before legal approval prevents overload, and new Work is released only when both Buffers have capacity. Not everyone supports it.
- **Flow Constraint** (16)**:** The bottleneck with the least capacity in the Definition of Workflow. There can be multiple bottlenecks (all with less capacity than what is required by the demand), and the Flow Constraint is the most limited one. It restricts the Kanban system’s overall Throughput, determining the pace at which Value is delivered. Example: In a software development team, if the testing takes the longest and limits the release of features, testing is the Flow Constraint that sets the system’s pace. In Knowledge Work, bottlenecks often exhibit turbulent behaviour and can move around the workflow in unpredictable ways. But sometimes bottlenecks are stubborn.
- **Simplified DBR (Drum-Buffer-Rope)** (3,16)**:** A simplified scheduling method where the Kanban system’s Throughput sets the workflow pace, and Throughput acts as a replenishment signal like in CONWIP. Suppose there is a Kanban system using Simplified Drum-Buffer-Rope, and the Definition of Workflow is designed to handle up to 15 Items, with 12 actively in progress/process (drum) and a Buffer of 3 Items ready to start, ensuring Work continues smoothly if any of the 12 Items face issues by pulling from the Buffer, maintaining Flow with, for example, 13 in progress/process and 2 in reserve. The rope signals replenishment when an Item is delivered, keeping the total within the 15-Item limit, and the system prioritizes rebuilding the Buffer quickly if it is depleted, proactively resolving issues to sustain Flow. Not everyone supports it.

### If Kanban system members need to prioritize a Work Item to ‘start’

*Here are some optional non-Kanban techniques that some but not all communities support:*

- **Class of Service** (21)**:** An archetype for one or a selection of Work Items, such as, standard, (real and therefore not arbitrary) fixed date, expedite, or intangible. The choice of class of service may reflect perceived relative Value, Risk, or Cost of Delay. It is more useful as an input for deciding which Item(s) to ‘start’ next when capacity allows than reprioritizing Work Items In Progress/Process (which is not good for Flow). Prone to overloading the Kanban system when misapplied, e.g., an ‘expedite lane’ might eventually get superseded by a ‘super-expedite lane,’ and then things start to get silly. Prone to unbalanced Flow even when not misapplied.
- **Cost of Delay (per unit of time)** (7)**:** The rate of Value loss per unit time for one or more Items, not to be confused with Delay Cost. It is often useful as input for deciding which Item(s) to ‘start’ next when capacity allows, rather than reprioritizing Work Items In Progress/Process (which is not good for Flow). Like most prioritization inputs, it is often based on educated guesses. It can also be real after the fact. For example, the Cost of Delay for a Work Item is $10,000 per week. Kanban system members should tread carefully before considering this approach.
- **Data-informed Rightsizing** (24-25)**:** Sometimes more effective than other options, as Kanban system members rarely know the effort or Value in advance. It allows for more opportunism.
- **Delay Cost (total)** (7)**:** The total cumulative loss over a period of time from a specific delay period for one or more Items. It can be actual or forecasted, and it’s important to be clear which one is being referred to. For example, if the Cost of Delay for a Work Item is $10,000 per week and it is delayed by 3 weeks, the Delay Cost is $30,000.
- **Impact Estimation Table (IET)** (22)**:** Evaluate options against Stakeholder expectations or limits.
- **Opportunity Cost:** The Value or benefit lost by choosing to work on one or more Work Items over other potentially valuable Work Items due to limited capacity. It reflects the trade-offs made when prioritizing within capacity in a Kanban system, where focusing on one or more Work Items means forgoing others that could have also delivered Value. Kanban system members often use metrics like Cost of Delay or Delay Cost to quantify opportunity cost. Since Value and, hence, Opportunity Cost range from being difficult to predict to being unpredictable, Kanban system members should tread carefully before attempting this approach.
- **Random:** Can be more effective than other options, as the effort or Value is not known upfront.
- **Real Options** (23)**:** Defer commitments until sufficient information is available, treating decisions as valuable, expiring options to maximize flexibility and manage Risk.
- **Risk:** Do the riskiest Item first. Risk can include the likelihood that Value cannot be harvested.
- **Shortest Job First** (24-25)**:** Select the Work Item with the lowest perceived effort, prioritizing rightsized Work Items over other Work Items. This can lead to shorter feedback loops and quicker outcomes. But, it can also lead to a delayed ‘start’ on a larger, riskier Work Item.
- **Slack** (19)**:** Slack is leaving unused capacity in the system to cope with demand surges, unplanned work, or the emergence of unseen circumstances. In a Kanban for Knowledge Work context, it is a deliberate allocation or policy of spare capacity or time within the Definition of Workflow to absorb variability, handle unexpected disruptions, or enable continuous improvement without compromising the Kanban system’s Throughput. Example: Kanban system members might maintain a Slack by limiting their ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ (SNFW) or Work In Progress/Process (WIP) to 80% of capacity, allowing time to address urgent requests or refine processes without delaying planned work. Slack is a key concept in Lean.
- **Value divided by Effort:** Estimated Value (usually an educated guess) divided by Estimated Effort (usually an educated guess). Actual Effort and Value tend to be random. Kanban system members should tread carefully before considering this approach. Optionally, consider Risk.

### Conventions Used in the Context of Knowledge Workd

- **Buffer** (16)**:** A buffer is a WIP-limited (or ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ limited) area that holds Work temporarily to smooth Flow and prevent overload, and also functions as a WIP controlled queue. Not to be confused with Slack. Not everyone supports Buffer; more columns can lead to a higher amount of ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ (SNFW) or Work In Progress/Process (WIP).
- ***Definition of Workflow:*** The explicit shared understanding of Flow among Kanban system members within their context, including but not limited to, *the explicit set of agreements and policies that describe how Work Items are selected, progressed, and ‘finished’ through the workflow’s distinct stages.*
- **Explicit policy:** An explicit policy in a Kanban system is a clearly defined and visible rule or guideline that makes assumptions about workflow—such as when Work Items ‘start’ or move—transparent to Kanban system members. These policies should be Visualized on the Kanban board and be easily accessible, ensuring all Kanban system members understand and follow the same process. By making policies explicit, Kanban system members reduce ambiguity, align actions, and support the optimized Flow of Value.
- **‘Finished’ (or ‘Completed’):** When the Elapsed Time from ‘Started’ to ‘Finished’ clock stops for a ‘started’ and ‘finished’ pair in a Definition of Workflow.
- **Flow:** The (ideally smooth) movement and delivery of Work Items through the Definition of Workflow. A balanced Kanban system sustains Throughput. In an ideal world, Work that entered the system (Knowledge Work), would flow like a river, never stopping, finding the path of least resistance until reaching the customer. Not to be confused with the Definition of Workflow (DoW). In Kanban, Flow > utilization.
- ***kanban:*** *A kanban​ (signboard in Japanese) is a Visual cue that triggers one to select, ‘start,’ or move a Work Item. Nothing should be produced or moved without a kanban signal.*
- **Kanban or Kanban system**: The holistic set of concepts in this guide. *Kanban is rooted in the idea of a signaling system (a way to call for Work or inventory in a production system).*  
  *When this guide says Kanban, assume a Kanban system.*
- **Kanban Board:** A Visual representation of one or more Definitions of Workflow.
- **Knowledge Work:** The creation, application, or management of information through cognitive processes to solve (often) complex problems, make decisions, or innovate, typically requiring expertise, judgment, and collaboration. Often, Knowledge Work & associated waste are invisible.
- **Iterative:** Work Items are worked in repeated cycles, with each cycle involving revisiting and refining the same Work based on feedback, testing, or new insights. Kanban is not inherently unsuited to creative iterative work, but it may require thoughtful consideration or adaptation.
- **JIT:** Toyota Just-in-Time––Producing only what is needed, when it’s needed, in the amount needed to minimize waste and optimize efficiency.
- **Measure:** A measure is a raw, unit-specific data point representing a single quantity, such as ‘number of Work Items completed this week’ or ‘time to complete a Work Item,’ serving as a foundational input for tracking Flow performance. Example: Kanban system members record a measure of 10 Work Items completed to date.
- **Metric:** A metric is a quantifiable calculation derived from one or more measures to provide context for workflow performance, such as ‘average Throughput’ or ‘Throughput per week.’ Example: Kanban system members calculate a metric of 4 days average Elapsed Time ‘Started’ to ‘Finished’ by dividing the total time to complete 10 Work Items by the number of Work Items.
- **Pull:** Work is selected (whether ‘started’ or ‘not started’ on the Definition of Workflow) only when there is capacity, chosen by Kanban system members, and prevents overload, ideally signaled by a customer, directly or indirectly.
- **Push:** Work is assigned onto Kanban system members or into the Kanban system without considering the current capacity or readiness of Kanban system members to ‘start’ the Work.
- **Queue:** A queue in Kanban is a waiting area for Work Items, often without strict limits, but it can serve as a Buffer if Work In Progress/Process (WIP) limits (16) or ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ (SNFW) limits are present.
- **Risk:** The chance that something bad could happen.
- **Stable system:** Put simply, a system that can consistently meet the demand placed upon it. There are more accurate descriptions (7,8,20). Knowledge Work tends to produce a higher range of Work Item sizes than manufacturing work. Unequal sizes do not necessarily lead to higher variation of elapsed times (due to waiting time often being the most significant factor, etc.) or Throughput but can do so (due to external dependencies, etc.). The view in this guide is that approaches designed for manufacturing do not necessarily lack utility in Knowledge Work.
- **Stakeholder**: An entity, individual, or group responsible for, interested in, or affected by the inputs, activities, and outcomes of the Kanban system. Includes but is not limited to customer, decision-maker, or user.
- **‘Started’:** When elapsed time clocks ‘start’ for a ‘started’ and ‘finished’ pair in a Definition of Workflow.
- **‘started’ and ‘finished’ pair:** Each of one or many ‘started’ points on a Definition of Workflow should have a matching ‘finished’ point on the same Definition of Workflow.
- **Takt:** The word Takt (English ’tact’) is derived from the German word meaning rhythm, cadence, or cycle. Takt is related to keeping time in music. Modern usage of Takt is typically in a manufacturing context. Takt is a foundational measurement in the Toyota Product System and Lean Thinking, used to calculate the capacity required to meet demand in a stable system. Throughput, unlike Takt, which sets the expectation for the ideal pace based on demand, measures actual output per unit of time. Takt also helps achieve a balanced system to meet demand consistently by enabling Kanban system members to determine the capacity needed at each stage of a process. Calculating Takt is challenging in Knowledge Work, as it requires understanding demand in high-variation environments. Not always ideal for Knowledge Work.
- **Work:** Refers to one or more Work Items, ‘started’, ‘not started’, ‘finished,’ or ‘not finished.’
- **Work Item:** A Work Item, also referred to as an Item, holds the potential for Value.​ Various terms can be used to describe the different levels of granularity of a Work Item, as long as it has potential for Value. Work Items that do not have potential for Stakeholder Value are potentially wasteful, e.g., people focus on ‘finishing’ subtasks across multiple Work Items rather than focusing on ‘finishing’ one Item at a time. Controlling ‘Started but Not Finished Work’ (SNFW) or Work In Progress/Process (WIP) for potentially wasteful Items often reduces the collaborative effort and focus to deliver potential Value sooner. Consider the context.
- **Work Item Type:** A categorization for a Work Item. Examples include but are not limited to brands, customers, features, bugs, project work, user experience (UX) research, customer experience (CX) research, human-centered design, operational work, problem statements, hypotheses, other research, and experiments. Useful for sense-making.
- **Validated Value:** Value confirmed with evidence or observations (ideally both), formally or informally, by Stakeholders; often after one or more rounds of result feedback (and rework), by internal and external Stakeholders. Not everyone supports it.
- **Value**: Either a potential or realized benefit for a Stakeholder. Examples include meeting the needs of the customer, the end-user, the decision-maker, the organization, and the environment.
- **Visualize, visualization:** Any method to convey ideas effectively, including conceptual clarification, not necessarily only visual.
